README.md, before:

# reasonabout.github.io

## How do you contribute to this blog?

1. Clone the repo (you should have write privileges)
2. Open the `_posts` directory
3. Create a new .md file and name it like this: `YYYY-MM-DD-in-name-of-post`, where you replace "in" with your initials
3. Copy/paste YAML front matter from an existing post into your new file
4. Update YAM front matter values
7. Write something interesting
8. At the bottom of your post, include a bio with a link to your personal site
9. Add, commit, and push to the repo (if you forked the repo, do a pull request)

## If you want to run it locally:

1. cd into the reasonabout repo
2. `sudo gem install jekyll` (make sure you have ruby installed)
3. `jekyll serve`

Go to `localhost:4000` to see the site running locally.
 
## Adding images or documents to your post?

1. Create a directory inside of the "assets" directory and name it with your initials
2. Organize your files by year and month (see "ek" directory for an example)
3. Use absolute links to access your files:

    `/assets/ek/my-file.jpg`

Commit message:

Updated README.md again...
jekyll serve is required to transpile the markdown.

README.md, after:

# reasonabout.github.io

## How do you contribute to this blog?

1. Clone the repo (you should have write privileges)
2. Open the `_posts` directory
3. Create a new .md file and name it like this: `YYYY-MM-DD-in-name-of-post`, where you replace "in" with your initials
3. Copy/paste YAML front matter from an existing post into your new file
4. Update YAM front matter values
7. Write something interesting
8. At the bottom of your post, include a bio with a link to your personal site
9. cd into the reasonabout repo
10. `sudo gem install jekyll` (make sure you have ruby installed)
11. `jekyll serve` (This step is REQUIRED to transpile the markdown into markup)
12. Add, commit, and push to the repo (if you forked the repo, do a pull request)
 
## Adding images or documents to your post?

1. Create a directory inside of the "assets" directory and name it with your initials
2. Organize your files by year and month (see "ek" directory for an example)
3. Use absolute links to access your files:

    `/assets/ek/my-file.jpg`
